<!-- Info:
author: mpeg
// -->

Plugin Driven Design
====================

Last week I produced a good starting point for a [plugin management library][1] for _NodeJS_ which with handle part of the scalability requirements of _PolitJS_.

Meanwhile I was wondering **how to write a scalable step by step process** to drive the website compiling logic:

> I want _PoliteJS_ to expose some big general steps to be executed in **asynchronous series**.  
> Each step should be seen as a **black box, a machine doing something**.
>
> I want **each _black box_ to be able to split itself** in many little black boxes.  
> I want this process to be recursive at any level of the machine.
>
> I want this logic **to be exended by the _project level_** improving existing black boxes capabilities or adding new one!

<!-- more -->

I was thinking on really complex solutions. One of them was a kind of mixin strategy to make a _NodeJS module_ be able to refer to submodules by some kind of API like `addStep()`, `addBefore()`, `addAfter()` and so on... a nightmare!

Luckily morning's coffee gave me a very clever solution:



## Everything is a Plugin!

The [plugin management library][1] I wrote during the weekend exposes a `run()` API who run hook's callbacks with the **asynchronous series** mechanism. 

> I can run an an asynchronous serialized series of plugin hooks!

```
// run asynchronous serialized steps:
async.eachSeries([
    'step1',
    'step2',
    '...'
], function(plugin, done) {
    PluginManager.run(plugin, done)
}, ..end!);
```

It doesn't matter what happen inside the plugin's hook logic, the only important thing is **they are executed one after one** but each of them should contain both sinchronous or asynchronous logic! 

> I found my **black box!**

Extensibility is easy to implement thanks to **plugin's priority mechanism**: every core callback will pick up a well documented **priority level so project level plugins should place logic in between core's logic**.

The last useful consideration is that each black box should re-implement above code providing a virtual **infinite recursion of the black box model**.



## Power or Chaos?

This is a question that matter!  
What I described above should be both a power extensible system or a chaotic mess of plugins!

I'm pretty sure that developing a **good naming structure for core's plugins and priority system** should enforce the "power" option.



## Move Responsability Outside!

On the bright side of this solution I can say that _PoliteJS_ core will be extremely concise software.

> Less Code ~ Less Errors  
> <small>I didn't use "=" because "less code" should also means "less but huge errors"!</small>

The main big logic of _PoliteJS_ will be spread to core plugin packages: each package will be responsible of it's own logic and provided core.

I don't have any ready solution yet but I want core **plugins to fit into the core testing framework** by exposing their own _specs_.



## Infinite Possibilities!

Another bright side it is the **extreme scalability** for the entire software developement process provided by this design.

During the core developement I will be able to **apply big changes to the core logic** organization by modify priority indexes of existing plugins.

Project's plugins will be able to **heavily interact with the whole core process** by injecting custom code between almost every step! They will also be able to **exploit the "standard hooks"** provided by core plugins!



[1]: https://npmjs.org/package/polite-plugin-manager "Polite plugin manager for NodeJS"