<!-- Info:
author: mpeg
// -->

Driver Collector Overview
=========================

Today I faced a little architectural problem and I solved it with a simple _design parttern_ I called **driver**.

> This article describe the situation where this pattern should be helpful.

<!-- more -->

## The Problem

You have a **list of similar resources** and you want to run the same action on each resource **choosing the correct strategy** based on some resoure property.

> _PoliteJS_ wants to be able to **read source files** from eterogeneous file types: _Markdown_, _HTML_, _Wiki like syntax_, ...

## The Driver Design Pattern

I began consider to implement the [strategy design pattern](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Strategy_pattern) but as I grew in undesrtanding _PoliteJS_'s needs I decided to implement something more flexible: the **driver design pattern**.

> You can plug whathever device to you computer but then you can use only ones for which you have a driver installed!

The general idea is TO DELEGATE an ACTION on an OBJECT to a driver identified by a name, that name depends on some object's attribute.

> If no driver is available it can apply a default strategy or just skip the object!

```
var driverLocator = require('driver-locator');

if (var driver = driverLocator.locate('driver-name') !== false) {
    driver(...);
} else {
    // optional fallback logic
}
```

> **driver design pattern** add the concept of **optional strategy** to the **strategy design pattern**.

## Register Drivers

Drivers are simple functions with no strict specifications. You can register a function as a driver using the simple api:

```
driverLocator.register('driver-name', function() {
    ...
});
```

> It is up to your implementation to run the driver syn or async!

There is also an utility method to register all drivers found in a given folder.

```
driverLocator.registerMany('/absolute/folder/path/');
```


## Drivers are Overridable!

This means that the strategy offered by default to read a _Markdown_ source file should be **overridden by a new driver provided by a plugin**!

Another consequence is that **plugins should add new drivers** to the system allow _PoliteJS_ to scale very well in every situation where a strategy/driver is required.

> A plugin can introduce support for a new source file type like `.ods` or `.rtf`!


