<!-- Info:
author: mpeg
// -->

Bad Weekend!
============

Last weekend it was pretty sunny here in Sweden so I spent my time with my family running around the north part of Skane. 

> Good for me bad for _PoliteJS_!

However I did some work anyway... It mostly concerned code organization and testing so it should indeed have been one of the most important developement session of the entire project!

<!-- more -->

## Core Structure

The _core_ repository now produce an _NPM Module_ named `grunt-polite` who will be published to the _NPM Repository_ (when the first stable version will be reached!)

The `grunt` and `grunt start` tasks now build this module under the `build/` folder and copy it to the _demo_ repository who need to be placed beside the core.

> If you start working on the _core_ just throw `grunt start` and every code change will be propagate to the _demo_ repository where to build the demo website!



## Test Suite

The second effort of the day it was to add an **automatic test runner** for the `core` repository.

_PoliteJS_'s test suite describes scenarios with [MochaJS](http://visionmedia.github.io/mocha/) and do assertions with [ChaiJS](http://chaijs.com).

For complex tests scenarios you may need to create fake objects or spy existing ones. We do this stuff with [SinonJS](http://sinonjs.org).

At the practical side all _core_'s source files are placed under the `src/` folder while tests are placed under the `specs/` folder and named as `test-name.spec.js`.

> Every time the _core_ is being rebuilt all tests are executed automatically!  
> **If a test fails the building process exit!**

After some working time I decided to create a little dedicated project for this task... It is now plublicly available as _NPM Module_: [grunt-mocha-chai-sinon](https://npmjs.org/package/grunt-mocha-chai-sinon)

