<!-- Info:
author: mpeg
// -->

Start Me Up!
===================

Today I woke up at 5.55 in the morning and I found myself wondering how to proceed with the _PoliteJS_ project.

I had two hevvy tags running in and out of my mind:

- organization
- scalability

I'm pretty sure that in a few month many people will be involved into this little yet interesting project as code contributors so I need a way to share the code and control it growth.

I've also many many ideas about what this software could do in the future... It is quite hard to keep things simple as I'm learning to do in _Mobenga_!

> This early morning I took some very important decisions about how this project will be!

<!-- more -->




## Organization

Oranization is a big deal that matter so much during a project startup. In my experience many former projects have failed due lack of organization.

Organization concern many areas:

- ideas
- code
- people
- issues
- ... so many

> As soon as I felt the need for organization I thought to _GitHub_.

I created a custom organization for _PoliteJS_ then I began thinking about some repository organization and I did as follow:

### PoliteJS/core

This repository will contain the main source code of _PoliteJS_. At the time of writing it is only an empty repository.

I have to think better how to organize it to achieve a good and scalable core module!

### PoliteJS/demo

This is a **demo project** repository.  
It contains the folder structure for a real _PoliteJS_ project.

> I will write all _PoliteJS_ docs and this blog under this repository!

### PoliteJS/stories

This is an organization repository. Here in Sweden I'm learning so much about project organization with _SCRUM_ and _Behavior Driven Developement_ so I decided to use that tools to manage this project.

Inside this repository contributors write their ideas as _user stories_ then arguments them as a list of tasks to be developement and tested.

> When an _user story_ is agreed and well organized into clear tasks then someone (today someoune = me) pick it up and start working on it!




## Scalability

Scalability has two meanings to _PoliteJS_ project:

- allow many developers to contribute
- allow many complex features to be added to the product

The first meaning is covered by choosing _GitHub_ as developement infrastructure so I will be able to receive modifications and new implementations from developers and to merge them to the main repository.

The latest is a very big deal because concern the very first decisions in structuring the project.

I don't really know how I will resolve that but I plan **to implement a good plugin support** for _PoliteJS_. The idea is to put as many behaviors as possible outside the core as plugins of _PoliteJS_ itself.

Many projects behave like this so I'm sure it is the correct strategy.

