<!-- Info:
title: On The Road Again!
author: mpeg
// -->

On The Road, Again!
===================

I decided to begin the _PoliteJS_ project because I was tired about _WordPress_ and I don't really like _[Jeckyl](http://jekyllrb.com)_ because it is based on _RubyOnRails_.

> I need a simple solution to transform a set of _Markdown_ files into a **concrete website**!

I was also learning about _NodeJS_ and in a little and personal spike I found myself able to create a little but effective **blog compiler** so I decided to move on!

<!-- more -->

## What about the name?

At the beginning I wished to call this project "MameliJS" because I'm an italian guy who lives abroad (for work) and as soon as I moved I began to feel more italian than when I was living in Italy.

After some googling about a free domain name I really liked the "polite" word and its meaning.

> I want my project **to be polite** with its users!

## The First Target

As target for the very first release I fixed the ability to collect informations from the source files and template folder and to produce a basic website to publish that contents.

I really don't think it will be very powerful in features and template options but I'm pretty sure there will be the **push to FTP** funciton available.

> Support for plugins will be the very next step!

## The Far Target

I plan to develope a real **desktop website/blog IDE** which can be used by every kind of users, from developers to chefs.

Today I guess to achieve this objective using [node-webkit](https://github.com/rogerwang/node-webkit) but I am not really able to look into the future, yet.


---

And now I go dinner... otherwise my wife will kill me!